# Data description
X-ray is ionizing radiation. It can cause seed mutation. In the early days, X-rays were used in mutation breeding. In fact, X-rays do induce mutations in seeds if a high dose of hard X-rays is used. Dormant seeds are less easy to mutation because the cells are not dividing and chromosomes are coiled. When you soak the seeds the cells start to divide and X-rays at lower doses can induce mutations and physiological damage as well. This at doses more than 50 Gy but depends on the species. For this research, it has two seed lots peach and one seed lot pear. Planing 6 experiments, Test 1. Testing the TZ rate of peach and pear for seed quality. Test 2. Initial germination test for the normal seedling. Test3. initial germination test for the 160kv exposure seed. Test 4. storage exposure seed for 2 months then do the germination test (160kv). Test 5 initial germination test for the 140 kv exposure seed. Test 6. storage exposure seed for 2 months then do the germination test (140kv). Tract the data twice a week and keep observation each day.
There are four tabular spreadsheet to put down datasets that observate in this experiment and all data are experimental. The first dataset is the tz test, germination rate, liner and dry matter content. The second dataset is the physical sample; The third one is the seed pictures of X-ray image and info collected from Eugene airport and cooperated with our engineering department for seed exposure. The last dataset is photograph of each step during the experiment and observation every 15 days of  seed growth.
For dataset 1:
-       TZ test: using TZ solution to check the seed quality at the beginning of the research. staining occurs in live and healthy portions lead to test the seed viability.
-       germination rate: calculate the percentage of germination and identify parts of a germinating seed with different types of genetic seeds (ex. Pear and peach) during each 15 days. I will observe twice a week and record the growth rate and the occurrence of any pathology symptoms
-       Linear: Measure root length and overall length of seedlings
-       Dry matter content: cut the embryonic leaf then put in lab oven 24 hours then weight refers to material remaining after removal of water, and the moisture content reflects the amount of water present in the feed ingredient.
For dataset 2:
-       Collect the physical sample after experiment
For dataset 3: (x-ray pictures & info)
-       Eugene airport uses a computer tomography (CT) scanner which is a hollow tube that surrounds a box using x-ray to scan the seed. 
-       We use a customized L10711-19 X-ray source (Hamamatsu Photonics, Hamamatsu, Japan). Creating a Visible image from invisible radiation as the X-ray waves are invisible for the human eye.
For dataset 4:
-       Photography: take pictures of all the plants in the box every 15 days for comparison to control the environment, temperature and other factors.
   	For dataset 1:
-       For TZ test I will use lab equipment such as chemical solution to test the seed viability and put the viability rate in the excel document.
-       For germination rate I will also use lab equipment, for example germinate box, soil, water, germinator, chilling room to test the growth rate then put data in excel.
-       For Linear measurement I will use lab equipment such as ruler to measure the length of overall seedling and root, put the result cm in excel.
-       Dry matter content I will lab equipment to cut the embryo leaf then put in the Boekel Scientific Oven to dry 24 hours then wight and out final weight number in the excel spreadsheet. 
For dataset 2:
-       The physical sample was founded by farmer and after the experiment as above will collect for later comparison.
For dataset 3: (x-ray pictures & info)
-       Get permission from Eugene airport to use their instrument.
-       Cooperate with engineering department lend us X - ray machine
For dataset 4:
-       Using camera to take Photo then put in a photography file.
   	For all the data above will record in Excel. I estimate the data will less than 1GB include the picture, texts and excel datas. 

# Roles and responsibilities
  For dataset 1，Grad student 1, Grad student 2 and Undergraduate student 1 as a data collector and data generation for seed quality and germination rate, TZ test, measure the linear, test the dry matter content. For dataset 2: Grad student 1 will collect the physical sample after experiment. For dataset 3: (x-ray pictures & info), Grad student 1 and P1 will go to Eugene airport and cooperate with engineering department to just instrument. For dataset 4: Grad student 1 will take Photography in every step of experiment. After collect the data, Lab assistant 1 and Grad student 1 for data analyzer. Professor 1 is the main project designer; Grad student 1 is responsible for data backup and storage.  Lab assistant 1 is for instrumentation maintenance; Grad student 1 is for data organization; Grad student 1 and professor 1 are for quality control.
  The official explanation for osu is that the sensitive data is not strictly confidential, but it's still private, and it's not disclosed in public. Student data, employee data, confidential information on donations, privileged attorney-client communications and confidential meeting minutes are four types of data that fall into this category. For this research data are not sensitive because It’s not related to human subjects so don’t need to have protection.
  The way data is structured and collected has practical, legal, and ethical implications. A data management plan (DMP) is a formal document that Outlines how data will be processed during and after your study. DMP is the planned roadmap for how to manage and protect your data, meet funder requirements, etc. A well-structured and executed DMP can help reduce and reduce the risk of research data, protect participants' confidential data, allow more efficient use of resources, such as staff time, preparation of publications, budget data management and research start.
  There is one funding for this research, there is a  farmer sends the peach and pear seeds for me to do the research. The funder doesn't have any data management or data sharing requirements

# Data standards and metadata
  During the seed research project do not need to use any disciplinary data standards because It is simple to research and only involve spreadsheets, photography and world file datasets. when data collection has begun, stored in the spreadsheet then using data dictionary, readme files as data documentation to make research more reproducible that allows other students to understand this data and to explain what all the variable names and values in dataset spreadsheets really mean.  Data will be stored in a CVS system and checked in and out for purposes of versioning each lab experiments. Variables will use a standardized naming convention consisting of a prefix, root, suffix system. Separate files will be managed for the two kinds of records produced: one file for respondents and another file for children with merging routines specified. 

# Storage and security
  For storage, the research project data as short term storage for raw data using Automatically storage copy in each experimental day put in laptop. The data files from this study will be managed, processed, and stored in a secure environment. Using lockable computer systems with passwords, firewall system in place, power surge protection, virus intruder protection and by controlling access to digital files with encryption and password protection. 
－ Google Drive (Unlimited) as daily access, supported by Google, backed up securely so will not worry about not save the data during the experiment. Accessible via the web browser and can be shared with PI and external collaborators. 
－ Flash Drive (3 GB) Requires drive mapping, not accessible via a web browser.  Backed up securely, Number 1 flash drive for every week to save the raw data and Number 2 flash drive for the final dataset documentation. 
－ Lab calendar folder (hard copy) Print the raw data every time after the experiment then put in the folder and describe what that day is done and what is the data mean. Making another copy folder and give to the professor so can be better to follow. 
	Google drive will store as long as my account exist, for laptop can save until change a new computer. Change and make copy for flash drive (usb storage) for every two years and keep lab folder in a dry condition bookshelf keep check every year and making new hard copy. In addition to distributing the data from a hard copy, flash drive, local save in my laptop, future long-term use of the data will be ensured by placing a copy of the data into [repository], ensuring that best practices in digital preservation will safeguard the files. Place a master copy of each digital file (such as the seed research data files, data documentation, and other related files) in Archival Storage, with several copies stored at designated locations. Github can store over 10 years.  
	Individual data collection events will be structured into individual files, e.g. images for that specific date, tabular spreadsheets for that data experiment makes a raw data single file. These single files are then organized into folders of similar files to a final big file. 
	Early version control systems, such as CVS, track each file separately - each file has its own version number. Then using Git distributed version control systems runs faster, is less prone to errors. 
	The digital data will storage as above tools but the seed sample will throw in trash after publish the paper. 

# Access and data sharing
  Preserving the data in Github repositories which are managed by trusted entities for long-term access is the most common way to share data. Also, share directly with colleagues and PI via email. Data will be available at the time of publication. Supporting data will be available upon the acceptance of the research paper and include the citation of the dataset in the paper, and the reviewers can consider the dataset while reviewing the paper. GitHub could be used in addition to the repository as an extra sharing mechanism. Planning on updating the dataset frequently after the publication by putting on GitHub. 
  For this research data is not sensitive, so do not to protect the privacy and confidentiality of research subjects. The only factor that limits the availability to share data  is before publication anyone wishing to use the data must first contact and receive permission from the PI. Shared data will be accompanied by a readme file and data dictionary which will provide additional information. For Databases, the format needs to use CSV. For images using JPEG 2000 for raw data and PDF for final dataset format; For Text, the data format can also be available and cited in the publication. Researchers will be able to contact the PI for access to data. Data will be maintained in an open XML format to enable open re-use of the data. All the intellectual property rights for this project will be given to the public. 
  The policies governing the reuse of the data will using the Creative Commons Attribution License (cc-by licenses). CC-BY is an open access publishing license that allows the tabular and photograph dataset to retain ownership of the copyright for their work while granting PI, students involved in this project and  permission to publish and distribute the work. Under CC-BY policy with no charges for access and no restrictions on subsequent redistribution or use, as long as the author(s) and source are cited. CC-BY licenses grant permission to use the licensed material in any photo graph and format regardless of the format in which it has been made available and there is no derivatives of the data. Using RDFa as the method to policy in the document. It a general technology for Linked Data markup. When publishing the paper online will give a link and connect to the license policy. 

# Archiving and preservation
  The physical dataset of seedling will collect during the experiment and label it as the format and storage in the seed lab until publishing the paper then throw away.  The digital dataset will be archived in the GitHub every time access after the experiment. When putting in the GitHub will easily access to the archived data will be maintained. In can be archived more than 10 years and until Github is useless any more or finding a better repository. Using CVS as the tabular format and PDF as the photograph format that the investigator will retain in their possession.

Repository with source code [here](https://github.com/clarallebot/GRAD521_DMPtemplate)
